1. Portal – provides a variety of Internet services from a single, convenient location. Most portals offer free services such as search engines; local, national, and worldwide news; sports; weather; reference tools; maps; stock quotes; newsgroups; chat rooms; and calendars

2. News – contains news articles relating to current events.

3. Informational – contains factual information, such as research and statistics. Governmental agencies and nonprofit organizations are the primary providers of informational Web pages.

4. Business / Marketing – contains content that promotes or sells products or services.

5. Educational – provides exciting, challenging avenues for formal and informal teaching and learning.

6. Entertainment – offers an interactive and engaging environment and contains music, video, sports, games, and other similar features.

7. Advocacy – Within an advocacy Web site, you will find content that describes a cause, opinion, question, or idea.

8. Blog – which is short for Weblog, uses a regularly updated journal format to reflect the interests, opinions, and personality of the author and sometimes of site visitors.

9. Wiki – is a collaborative Web site that allows users to create, add to, modify, or delete the Web site content via their Web browser. Most wikis are open to modification by the general public.

10. Social Network – is an online community that encourages members to share their interests, stories, photos, music, and videos with other members.

11. Content Aggregator – is a business that gathers and organizes Web content and then distributes the content to subscribers free or for a fee. What Content aggregation does is collects a list or category of links/posts and resources on a specific niche.

12. Personal – is published by an individual or family and generally is not associated with any organization

Planning Basics – Purpose
i. Purpose and Goal – 
ii. Target audience - consider the gender, education, age range, income, profession/job field, and computer proficiency of your target audience.
iii. Web technologies
iv. Web site comparison

Planning Basics – Content
i. Value-added content
Text - one idea per paragraph, bulleted lists •, subheadings.
Images 
Color palette
Multimedia 
<video>
<audio>

3. Web site Navigation
i. Linear Structure
ii. Hierarchical
iii. Grid
iV. Hybrid

4. Web Development Typography
Typography 
font: Serif, Sans-serif, Fantasy, Monospace, cursive
image format

5. Reviewing and Testing a web site
Is the Web site free of spelling and grammatical errors?
Is the page layout consistent, and does it generate a sense of balance and order?
Are any links broken?
Do multimedia interactivity and forms function correctly?


6. Publishing a Web site

7. Maintaining a Web Site
